okay this is pressure Locker I received
an email that I wanted to share with you
Wolfgang came up with a false proof that
two equals zero when he showed it to his
class no one could figure out where the
mistake was not even his teacher so I
wanted to share a version of that proof
with you and asked can you figure out
where the mistake is we start out with
two equals one plus one one is also
equal to the square root of 1 and 1 is
also equal to negative 1 times negative
1 we now take the square root of each
term the square root of negative 1 is
equal to the imaginary number I we have
I times I which equals I squared and I
squared is equal to negative 1 in the
end we have 1 2 plus negative 1 which
equals 0 and all of this is equal to 2
so we have proven that 2 is equal to 0
clearly this is an absurd conclusion so
where is the mistake in this proof
give it a moment of thought before
watching the rest of the video where I
explain where the mistake comes from
so when Wolfgang sent me this email I
immediately spotted the mistake because
it is a common fallacy the problem comes
when you take the square root of a
product of negative term it's okay to
take the square root of negative one
times negative one what you cannot do is
then take the square root of each term
there is something called the product
rule of square root if you have the
square root of eight times B that is
equal to the square root of a time's the
square root of B but it's generally only
true when both terms are greater than or
equal to zero it goes and work in this
case when both terms are negative one
you can see that's the mistake all of
the other sets in the proof are valid
doing that plus you sometimes learn
these properties and they come with
these conditions like all of this is
only true of both terms are greater than
or equal to zero you can see why these
terms
absolutely matter you should remember
the conditions of these properties
because otherwise you can get to absurd
conclusions like in this case two equals
zero so did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on maps and
game theory you can catch one of my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch around social media a pressure
Locker and if you like this video please
check out my book there are links in the
video description